everybody lives with their first memory
of when they tried drugs when they tried
drinking alcohol
but most people don't have that
experience
or that time of their life documented on
the internet
more and more i think this will be the
case recently i was watching a
video from hitomi mochizuki hatomi is
about four years younger than me so she
grew up even more in this internet era
she had developed early in life and this
had
transformed her teenage years and she
had all these experiences early in life
that other people
might have a little bit later so by this
time she was
maybe 15 or 16 she had like gotten over
this experience of first trying alcohol
first doing drugs
first having sex with somebody this for
her was
a part of life that was shallow and she
decided
she would rather be alone than try to be
friends with somebody who was drinking
and doing drugs
these memories can be very vivid from
your childhood adolescence
teenage years partly because they can be
painful
they can be difficult they can be
triggering to
revisit a lot of the times people don't
want to remember them
and they spend most of their 20s 30s
pushing all that away
for this reason i thought it was
interesting to hear hitomi mochizuki's
perspective on some of these formative
events in her life and how her
experience is
probably different than others so she
uploaded a video
and the title appealed to me because i
recently had gone back
and looked at some old pictures old
video
of me and friends basically from 10
years old to
16 years old looking through these time
periods it was
kind of surreal for me to look back and
see i was
that old at that point and it was
kind of shocking to me and i think for
her as well i got to see that it was
triggering for her to look back at some
of these videos
for most people they have these private
videos or
most people they just have private
memories and for most
of the time period of human history
these memories were not
forever encapsulated in youtube videos
or
in pictures for a lot of people these
are just memories that live in their
minds
and then they don't have to think about
them they don't have to see them and
they're not part of their
internet persona but for her tell me
from the time she was 12 years old she
was
uploading videos she was uploading
videos about her life
she comments how she wanted to talk to
that person you know you see yourself on
video and you say like man i wish i
could
talk to that person again and tell them
you know
what to avoid and that's the tragedy of
life having these experiences and then
realizing
wow that was kind of messed up like i
wish i wouldn't have done that at that
time
what was interesting for me to hear and
reflect on in my own life she says that
when she was young she developed early
and i didn't
i was a late bloomer i had also the
experience of being young for my grade
so when i was 12 most of the people in
my class were 13
and when i was that age i had a friend
who was not only older than me but she
also
developed earlier than me so she looked
like she could be 16 years old she could
be mistaken for somebody
who's you know really just developed
into a fully grown woman
whereas i still looked more childish
more just
girlish and young you know this was a
formative experience in my life that
this was somebody who
not only had developed really physically
but in what she did
with her time and the kind of friends
that she hung out with
she was i guess you could say a bad
influence on me
so i had this experience of drinking
early
that i wouldn't have otherwise this is
like a series of this
where i would be friends with somebody
you know there's this
expression thick as thieves what does
that mean you know
it's because if you both engage in some
illicit activity if you're
engaging in something that you know is
wrong you develop a bond
this connection to somebody that seems
deeper
and more real than other connections
when you aren't doing anything wrong you
know
if you both incriminate each other and
you know you don't there's this kind of
trust that
that builds between you and that friend
but i had the experience multiple times
of having a friend being involved in
some
activity with them that made me
uncomfortable and reflecting on it later
i regretted that i did it
and deciding really i wasn't going to
continue that friendship or
we just grew apart that was part of my
experience in my childhood and my
adolescence
now it was interesting to hear hitomi
say that she had these experiences early
on
and she decided that she would rather be
alone
she would rather not have friends if the
options were
have friends and do drugs do illegal
activity
or not have friends be alone i also had
this
choice presented to me stay friends with
somebody but then have the heartbreaking
realization
that they don't want to talk to you
about these things because
they feel judged by you now it turned
out later on i did
have a conversation with one of these
friends when we were both
six or seven years older and she told me
that she didn't want to be friends with
me anymore at that time because she felt
judged by me
this is just a difficult part of life
that you have to come to terms with that
if you want to live
your life in a certain way if you want
to be a certain person
sometimes you have to let people go that
you really love
you know i know wasn't romantic love but
you know
i loved these friends of mine and
i had to make the decision the hard
decision that i'm not going to
try to maintain this friendship because
they're doing things that i don't agree
with and instead of confronting them
i basically just decided well i'll try
to put more of my energy and time into
friendships that i feel more comfortable
with
now this is actually a regret of mine
and i'm not
advocating this i don't i don't know all
the answers and i don't know what the
right
answer is for for you in your life or
for anybody who
has this this crisis you know this turn
in the road where either you
confront a friend of yours about some
behavior that you think is unhealthy for
them that you think is wrong
and try to continue the friendship even
though you have this conflict
or you just stop communicating with them
and
just grow apart you know you stop making
this effort
looking back on it i think i do regret
not making the effort and i do regret
not
trying not having this confrontation
because it's not about
just living for your yourself and living
for who you want to be
it's also living for other people i
didn't want to be alone
you know like i had a lot of these
experiences where i didn't want to be
alone
but the only way i was able to have the
kind of
identity that i wanted was to be alone
you know i still
struggle with it because i don't have
any friends in real life
you know i have my boyfriend and it's
wonderful to be with somebody who really
understands you
and is working towards similar goals in
their life
and you know we have so much in common
so of course that's wonderful but
still i look back and i reflect on those
videos
of me with some friends when i was that
age and i just think
i've never had that again i've never had
the closeness with
that friend that i had then especially
my experience with being friends with
the same sex with with female friends
it's been really difficult and i think
it requires a certain amount of effort
on my part that i just haven't been
willing to give because it's hard to
find somebody
with similar interests who is willing to
alienate themselves from others
by not drinking alcohol by not doing
drugs by
living their life as an atheist
intellectual
somebody who wants to read books and
actually talk with me about the books
that they've read
it's just something that was alien from
my experience growing up as
a young girl most of what is expected
for girls to talk about is not
these big concepts these issues of
history and culture
and war these are just concepts i have
literally never talked to another female
human being
with in my life i don't want to live my
life that way where i'm just
alone and i don't have friends i want to
be able to
make that effort but it's it's so
difficult when
you feel like the culture that you're in
nobody has these same values as you
and nobody wants to read the books that
you want to read and
nobody wants to talk about what you want
to talk about are you willing to be
friends with somebody
if they want to go to a nightclub and
get high
if that's what friendship means to them
are you going to show up
no that's the sad fact is that i don't
want to go to a bar i don't want to go
to a nightclub i mean the alternate
that i think most people tend to think
of well if you're not going to a
nightclub if you're not going to a bar
if you're not drinking or doing drugs
then you are this puritanical
christian weirdo that like you know it's
it's either one of the other whereas
like you know it's hard to find this
in-between
path so no i i don't feel like i'm i'm
willing to make that
sacrifice of my time and energy to go to
a nightclub
in order to be friends with somebody at
some point in your life
inevitably you're going to encounter
this with a friend
where you either decide to continue the
friendship or you decide that you two
are so against each other on one top or
the other that you have to
cease being friends that the friendship
is over sometimes i question
would my life have been better had i
just continued
down the same path and put more emphasis
on the friendships on the connections
that i had made with these girls
instead of my own sense of integrity my
own sense of what i should be doing with
my time
but when i was going to church every
sunday when i was going through
lutheran confirmation at the same time
that my best friend was drinking alcohol
and doing drugs and
sleeping with boys you know like that to
me was such a
dichotomy like it i just couldn't
continue but
sometimes i do wonder like what if i
would have just continued this
would i've been better socialized would
i've had more friends would people have
thought i was cool or likable somebody
like hitomi
kind of has this likability because she
went through all that
she seemed to be older than she was she
dressed well like she took videos of
herself and uploaded to youtube people
actually wanted to look
people actually wanted to see her on
camera i mean
yeah like i could have surrounded myself
with people like this in order to
feel like i had this same connection
that i was also
cool or something but i had to
ultimately decide that no that's
not me i don't care if i'm not cool
that's how i'm going to live my life
i've had to reflect that i was
judgmental that was
the reality that was who i was when
somebody
who i was friends with started getting
more into
drinking and doing drugs started having
sex
i think they could sense that i was
judgmental and that i wasn't comfortable
talking about it
and for that reason actually i think it
delayed my development and
it delayed my maturity about a lot of
these issues because i didn't talk about
it
because i felt i felt like i already
wanted to be beyond it like i wanted to
be beyond
this immature stage i wanted to already
be past it because
i felt like in so many ways i already
was past some immature
phases i don't know i mean i grew up
with people telling me like
you know melissa you're so wise you know
not not that many people but yeah some
people told me that
people told me that i was mature and
wise for my age
and looking back on it of course no i
wasn't
i think they were just gassing me up
like i don't think that was the case at
all
but yeah i do remember distinctly
feeling like you know i don't want to
talk about you going to this guy's dorm
room
this was when we were in high school you
know hearing one of my friends saying
that she went up to the university
stayed in his dorm room got so drunk and
fell downstairs and stuff you know like
dude i don't want to talk about this
with you why would you do something so
stupid
are you are you dumb you know like
that's how i felt
i i was judgmental i thought man
i'm not this stupid the reality was i
was that stupid and
if i could have had those experiences if
i'd have been
this kind of confidence in myself or
this kind of
level of wanting to be in a relationship
with somebody it's not that i wasn't
ready it's
like i did have interests i had crushes
but
i was too afraid you know like i had
some experiences where i got really
emotionally attached to somebody
and it didn't nothing went forward and i
just decided
you know love is this little [ __ ]
thing i don't wanna why would i wanna
get involved with somebody i'm only 14
15 16 years old
but that's when you should be making
these
realizations that's when you should be
having these experiences with boys when
you should be
going through these phases and i didn't
until
later than most girls it felt i mean
maybe that's not
the reality but it did seem like
everybody else around me had more
experience with boys than i did
this ultimately led to a situation where
no girls talk to me about sex no girls
talk to me about their experiences
they probably went through some stuff
and formed
their sexual identity earlier they were
able to
come to conclusions about drugs and
alcohol earlier than i did
and i'm not trivializing it i do think
these experiences early in life
do really mess people up i've had
friends tell me that because they had
sex before they were
15 or 16 they they feel
like it messed up their sexuality and i
mean that's possible i don't know
it's like a case-by-case individual
basis i remember in hatomi's video that
she said that she was feeling
triggered by watching these videos and
you know i feel for her
and i know that she's going through a
lot dealing with
her past and a big part of her video was
talking about how she was starting her
spiritual journey
and i think her spiritual journey is in
part repairing some of this
lost youth this inner childhood that she
felt that she
couldn't have because she had all these
experiences
too early that's the reality that most
people live with
most people have these experiences and
they don't have them documented on the
internet
but i do think more and more we are
documenting them
online and uploading them to youtube and
people can learn from those experiences
young people can watch hitomi's
experience growing up and decide
to live their lives either like her and
go through the same kind of difficulties
that she has had to go through
or they can see it as a warning as
something to avoid
a path that they don't want to go down
you know that phrase
don't grow up too fast yeah that's true
don't grow up too slow
right yeah i know it's a really
precarious balancing act
of knowing when you're mature enough and
also
sometimes you do have to push beyond
what you think that you're mature enough
to handle
and going through all these periods of
growth it can change who you
become and you don't know how it will
change you and what kind of person
you'll turn into
if you have to go through these
experiences and then later on
examine them later on reflect on how
they made you the person that you are
today
[Laughter]
all right
i'm here to inform you that meat is bad
it's gross and it makes me want to
vomit